Simple Trading System
=====================

This was written purely as a programming exercise. This system is NOT intended to be traded.
All results are simulated and would not be achievable in practice. Trading this system is NOT
likely to prove profitable and I accept no responsibility for any losses that may occur.

This system was developed using Java7 and MySql (MariaDB) 5.5.

The system uses two moving average crossovers to generate signals. (An n-day moving average
is simply the mean of the prices over the previous n days). A buy signal occurs when the
"faster" moving average, i.e. the one with the shorter period, crosses over the "slower"
moving average, i.e. the one with the longer period. Similarly, a sell signal occurs when
the faster moving average crosses under the slower moving average.

When a buy signal occurs, a long position is opened in the instrument whose trade we are
simulating; this could be a stock, commodity future, investment fund and so on. When
a sell signal occurs, a short position is opened in the instrument. Any positions which
were already open due to an earlier signal are closed.

To prevent losses getting out of hand, a trailing stop loss is employed. This causes a
position to be closed when the price of the instrument moves too far in the wrong direction.
The stop loss is based on the average true range of the instrument; this is the mean of
the difference between the high and low price on each trading day. A multiple of this
value is subtracted from the day's low when opening a long position. If the price falls
below this level, the position will be closed. This prevents excessive losses in the
event the trade is not initially successful. This value is recalculated every day and,
if this results in a higher value, the stop loss level is raised to this value. This
allows some of the profits from a successful trade to be "locked in", while still
leaving room for further profits. The disadvantage is that a significant proportion
of the profits are left on the table when the trade eventually closed, as this will be
a considerable distance below the high point of the move in price.

The trailing stop loss is very similar for a short position, except that the average true
range is added to the daily high for the instrument, instead of being subtracted from
the daily low.

The core of the system is in processor/Processor.java

All the parameters of the system may be configured; this is achieved by modifying the
appropriate values in the constants folder.

Simple and exponential moving averages are provided. Other types may be added by subclassing
MovingAverage, which is found in the averages folder.

The criteria for creating buy and sell signals may be altered by editing
critera/MovingAverageCritera.java

A MySql schema and sample data is provided in simple.sql. The loader/OhlcvLoader.java program
is provided for loading arbitrary data; the ixic.ohlcv file (which was used to create simple.sql)
shows the format required.